---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Uncategorized
category: Uncategorized
class: blog
date: '2013-12-24T10:44:40+00:00'
date-shown: '2013-12-24'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/pact-a-christmas-story
tags: []
title: 'Pact: A Christmas Story'
---

It was a crisp winter’s morning and the coffee elves in the Pact grotto were
busy grinding the last of the year’s beans. From Zamorana to Finca San
Antonio, the whiff of tropics filled the air, glazing the icy windows with a
misty sheen that reminded the elves of snow.

Busily they laboured, matching coffee beans to tastes, grinds to spec. Dials
turned, levers swung and the machines hummed a carol for coffee.

It was mid morning when the first of the reindeers came to lighten the elves
of their load. The dials paused, the levers hung and the elves scuttled to
fill the sleigh.

Wiping his brow with the back of his little hand, the eldest of the elves took
a moment to look upon their morning’s work, a mighty tower of Christmas orders
never before seen in these lands. As a tear welled in his eye, he noticed on
the window sill an image formed of coffee chaff, the powdery excess that
spreads across the room on busy days such as this.

It was an image of great hope and blissful tidings which the artist elf in
residence had doodled in idle moments. Filled with a warm, fuzzy feeling
typical of elves of his age, papa elf felt an instant and strong urge to share
the creation with the world. And so, patting off his coffee-coated hands with
his apron, he captured the image with his trusty Kodak and summoned his old
friend the Twitter bird with a well-rehearsed whistle.

The image now clasped tight in his magical beak, the little blue bird
fluttered back to his enchanted kingdom to spread news of this wonderful new
creature.

> Spread the festive cheer! Great coffee delivered fresh to home sweet home.
£1 offer continues: <http://t.co/fKzjdDLmT1>
[pic.twitter.com/BTvTXaavQg](http://t.co/BTvTXaavQg)

>

> — Pact Coffee (@pactcoffee) [December 20,
2013](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee/status/414079399177486336)

But as the message spread, whispers of a certain identity fraud began to eddy
in the frosty winter air of Twitterland.

_Is it him? No it can’t be, he hasn’t been seen in years. He’s changed but
it’s definitely him. Just look at his cheerful demeanour and cherubin
tripartite body. It’s unmistakably him. It’s…_

> LOL! That awkward moment when you pay for sponsored tweets and inadvertently
draw Mr. Hankey. <https://t.co/ikFWYIhqwp>

>

> — Graham Day (@Graham_Day) [December 22,
2013](https://twitter.com/Graham_Day/status/414905422148284416)

And so the news of Mr Hankey’s prodigal return, some ten Christmases after his
departure from showbiz, spread throughout the realm. It was the talk of town.

> “[@pactcoffee](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee):
[pic.twitter.com/9kZODW4MYk](http://t.co/9kZODW4MYk)” MR HANKEY?!!

>

> — kentishtowncats (@kentishtowncats) [December 20,
2013](https://twitter.com/kentishtowncats/status/414087220874997760)

> [@pactcoffee](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee) 'Mr Hanky the Christmas Poo!'

>

> — STAR MAN (@Funk_Pump) [December 21,
2013](https://twitter.com/Funk_Pump/status/414346052247232512)

> [@pactcoffee](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee) is that mr hanky?

>

> — pixel-cutter (@alexsouth) [December 21,
2013](https://twitter.com/alexsouth/status/414435181169508352)

> [@pactcoffee](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee) Mr. Hanky!!!

>

> — Mikeeeee (@Michael_Snooze) [December 22,
2013](https://twitter.com/Michael_Snooze/status/414872465048096768)

> [@pactcoffee](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee) that's not Mr Snow, its Mr
Hanky the Christmas Poo!

>

> — KatKat (@KaKatGumdrops) [December 22,
2013](https://twitter.com/KaKatGumdrops/status/414897024996474881)

> [@pactcoffee](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee) Looks more like Mr Hankey to
me :p

>

> — Amster (@El_Amster) [December 22,
2013](https://twitter.com/El_Amster/status/414799330751414273)

> [@pactcoffee](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee) Mr. Hankey, surely.

>

> — The Noggin Factory (@nogginstem) [December 21,
2013](https://twitter.com/nogginstem/status/414503221131231232)

> Looks like [@pactcoffee](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee) have accidentally
made a Mr Hanky picture! [pic.twitter.com/UsMgkXfww7](http://t.co/UsMgkXfww7)

>

> — Tom Payne (@zappomatic) [December 21,
2013](https://twitter.com/zappomatic/status/414364421314846720)

And on and on the news spread until it reached the ears of the venerable
Joanne Harris, confidante to the Easter Bunny and rival to Santa, who decried
the illegitimate return of the Christmas poo with words that would have
penetrated the soul of Mr Snow, if that really was his name and if indeed he
had a soul.

> MR HANKEY HITS A NEW LOW RT: [@pactcoffee](https://twitter.com/pactcoffee)
Spread the festive cheer!: <http://t.co/FyGtZjPrZk>
[pic.twitter.com/282rtyjNWz](http://t.co/282rtyjNWz)

>

> — Joanne Harris (@Joannechocolat) [December 21,
2013](https://twitter.com/Joannechocolat/status/414479197076078592)

The speculations about Mr Snow’s identity thinned, then dissipated like an
interestingly shaped cloud. The final few whispers talked of a once celebrated
movie star, widely loved for his debonair personality as much as his acting
talent, who failed to live up to the towering expectations of his fans and
slid inexorably down the slippery ladder of fame one painful rung at a time.
Unable to shake the ghost of stardom past, he became self-destructive, they
said, abusing Frish at first, then harder forms of toilet bleach until all
that was left of him was an empty shell of the great poo he used to be,
reduced now to getting by on minor advertising work wherever he could find it.

And so Mr Snow disappeared into the never never of social media without
comment or ceremony, to be lost and forgotten to the world in about five
minutes. Whether or not Mr Snow was in fact the great Mr Hankey we will never
know for sure but if it really was him, it is comforting to think that maybe,
just maybe, some of the happiness from his heyday was restored to him this
Christmas by the rallying cry of his fans.

This Christmas, the world remembered.

### And now some Christmas Presents from Pact

First of all, the **£1 trial offer (85% off)** for new customers will continue
over the Christmas period under the discount code ******MRHANKEY**. Go to
[www.pactcoffee.com](http://www.pactcoffee.com) to redeem the code.

For those whose tweets appeared in the story above, we have a special gift for
you to thank you for our interesting Christmas surprise (how did none of us
see the resemblance?!). We’d like to send you **two bags of our fresh coffee**
in the new year and, if you like, **one additional bag to a friend** of your
choosing.

So if your Twitter handle is **@Graham_Day, @kentishtowncats, @matt_seccull,
@alexsouth, @Michale_Snooze, @borris_the_frog, @El_Amster, @nogginstem,
@zappomatic** or **@Joannechocolat** , then tweet us with your coffee choices
(go to [www.pactcoffee.com/coffees](http://www.pactcoffee.com/coffees) to see
what we have), how you plan to brew the coffee (cafetiere, aeropress, espresso
etc) and the Twitter handle of a friend you’d like us to send an extra bag out
to. There will be no spam or hustle from us, just great coffee.

Happy Christmas everyone. Love, Pact x