---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Uncategorized
category: Uncategorized
class: blog
date: '2014-07-03T13:47:07+00:00'
date-shown: '2014-07-03'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/not-fairtrade-and-why-thats-okay
tags:
- Coffee Farmers
- Ethical coffee
- Fairtrade
- Fairtrade Certification
- sourcing
title: "Not Fairtrade. And why that\u2019s okay."
---

As you might know by now, we make being a direct trade company a huge priority
at Pact. Going to origin to source our beans is important to us, not just
because it means our Head of Coffee, Will, gets to personally pick the
incredible coffees on our menu, but because it allows us to form friendships
with our farmers. Plus, cutting out any middlemen means we can pay our
producers better prices for exceptional beans. It’s a win-win, right?

Still, we get a lot of questions from curious customers wondering why we’re
not Fairtrade. It’s true, we’re not Fairtrade certified, but we think that’s
OK, and to save any confusion, we thought we’d break down for you.

**Fairtrade 101**

Not so long ago you had to keep a keen eye out for the Fairtrade logo on your
weekly shop. Nowadays, products with the small green, blue and black insignia
pop up so often it’s easy forget what it means. [Put simply Fairtrade is an
auditing firm.](http://www.fairtrade.org.uk/en/what-is-fairtrade/who-we-are)
Companies pay Fairtrade to audit their farms for safe and fair practices, in
turn farmers are guaranteed to be paid minimum wage. This wage fluctuates
depending on the region, but is around $1.40 per pound depending on the region
and includes an extra $0.20 to spend on community projects.

We at Pact agree that this is a great deal. Businesses get the products they
need and farmers are treated fairly. So why bring it up? Well…

**Pact isn’t Fairtrade certified, but it’s our promise to always** **we pay
farmers 25% more than the Fairtrade rate.**

![Pact's Ethical Coffee
Forum](https://pactcoffee.files.wordpress.com/2014/07/pacts-ethical-coffee-
forum.jpg?w=545)

When Fairtrade was launched in 1992, it was the only way a conscientious
coffee consumer could ensure their brew was ethical. Well, just two decades
later, there are far more viable and sustainable alternatives. And guess what?
Pact Coffee is one of them!

Truth is, comparing Fairtrade certified beans and speciality coffee is like
saying chalk and cheese both go well on crackers. Fairtrade certification is
designed for the commodity market (the supermarket shelf and the high-street
coffee chain), which means it doesn’t guarantee quality. As quality is so
important to us at Pact, Fairtrade certification is both unsuitable and
unnecessary!

So Pact Coffee tastes better, “but what about your farmers?” I hear you say.

**What are we doing to make sure our beans are sourced ethically?**

Because we buy high-quality coffee beans, the farmers receive a higher price
for their produce, on average, than their Fairtrade counterpart. How do we
know that? Well, we know our farmers.

When we love the taste of a coffee, we want more of it. So we return to our
farmers year after year to buy their beans. This is fantastic for them and for
us! They have the security of knowing that their next harvest will be bought
by us (so they can plan ahead and invest money into their farm and community)
and Pact customers can rest assured, knowing that their favourite Colombian is
coming back next year.

[![Limited Farmer-1](http://ec2-52-16-167-99.eu-
west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/Limited-
Farmer-11-1024x681.jpg)](http://ec2-52-16-167-99.eu-
west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/Limited-
Farmer-11.jpg)Introducing Faiber Vega Salazar. His farm in Colombia, Finca El
Cairo, produced one of our Limited Edition Coffees.

**And it gets better.**

How can this get any better you ask? Well, have you ever wondered whether the
man who lovingly farmed your coffee has a size seven or size eight boot? Or
what his family eats for breakfast? No? Ok, fair enough, but if you did want
to know, that’s something we can tell you!

Our relationships are not just long-lasting but direct too, and it works the
other way. Farmers can contact us with any problems that they have or just to
update us on how our coffee beans are doing this year.

So next time you don’t see the Fairtrade logo on your bag of Pact Coffee,
remember that it means that not only do we love our coffee, we love the people
who bring it to us as well. That’s why we pay higher prices, return to them
each year and are always available to help them and vice versa.

**_A little note…_**

_Because our fantastic Head of Coffee,[Will
Corby](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/2014/06/16/introducing-will/ "Introducing
Will…"), sources the majority of our green beans independently, we’re now able
to publish more information about the farmers that we work with and the price
they are paid per pound of coffee. We can now tell you that in 2014, we paid,
on average, 51% more than Fairtrade prices. _

![Pact Coffee
Beans](http://pactcoffee.files.wordpress.com/2014/02/break_line.png?w=300)

**A little correction…**

Due to the high number of interesting and insightful comments, we have decided
to make our position on ethical coffee sourcing clearer and more detailed. And
we’ll begin with a little correction:

**We can guarantee that Mercanta pay above the Fairtrade rate every single
time they buy coffee from a farmer.  
We apologise for the confusion that the term ‘on average’ has caused.**

**Are we planning to become Fairtrade? If not, why?**

One of the most frequently asked questions was whether we would choose to have
our farms Fairtrade audited in the future? And if not, then why?

There are two reasons why it’s unlikely Pact will become Fairtrade certified:

Firstly, we believe Pact does not have to be Fairtrade certified in order to
conduct sustainable economic practices. While the idea of paying above a
certain price for coffee beans sounds great, there is a downside. There’s a
disconnection between the price and quality of the coffee. We believe that
instead of guaranteeing a minimum price for coffee, regardless of quality, we
should pay more for better quality beans. By placing emphasis on coffee’s
quality _and_ ethics, rather than just the latter, we are able to foster
relationships with farmers that last decades, ensuring their lovely tasting
beans are constantly in demand.

**A great example.** San Antonio is a Guatemalan coffee farm. We bought our
first batch of coffee from Antonio Pullin, the owner of the farm, in 2013.
Because we were so impressed by the quality of the coffee, we agreed to buy
his next harvest in advance at a deservedly high price. This meant that he
could invest in his farm before his 2014 harvest was sold, knowing that he had
a guaranteed income from us. Antonio wants to work with us because it makes
his business sustainable and more profitable, and we want to work with Antonio
because he grows and processes great coffee!

Secondly, there’s the issue of variety. If we bought large quantities of
coffee from a small number of farmers, Fairtrade auditing would be an
inexpensive and economically logical option. However, we make it our business
to buy small batches of seasonal coffee from a large range of farms. The cost
of paying for Fairtrade to audit each of our farms would be extremely high,
particularly for a young company like us.

**Pact’s ethical sourcing policy**

We understand that it’s not enough to just say why we _aren’t_ Fairtrade.
That’s why we are committing to a viable, sustainable and transparent
alternative policy for ethical sourcing. As I explained in the ‘little note’
section of the original blog, most of our coffee beans are sourced
independently of Mercanta (our middle man).

As the majority of our coffees (if not 100 per cent) are now sourced directly
by us, we can now publish the prices we pay to each of our farmers. Having a
close and direct relationship with our farmers will also enable us to provide
you with more detailed descriptions of who they are and how we work together.

Over the next couple of weeks Pact will begin developing our own ethical
coffee sourcing policy. Stephen Rapoport (Founder & CEO), Will Corby (Head of
Coffee) and Rob Carter (CFO) will be looking to answer three key questions
that have arisen for this project (partly from your comments below):

1\. How much more than the Fairtrade rate will Pact pay its farmers?  
2\. What external auditing body will Pact use to guarantee that we follow
through and stick to our policy 100%?  
3\. Third, as many of you pointed out, we cannot currently guarantee that the
labourers who pick our coffee are paid a national minimum wage as [Fairtrade
works towards](http://www.fairtrade.org.uk/en/what-is-fairtrade/what-
fairtrade-does). So we’ll be asking what extra measures can we put in place on
wages for labourers and on fostering the relationships between the farms and
their communities?

By addressing these issues Stephen, Will and Rob will be able to clearly map
out Pact’s code of ethics and offer even more transparency to our community.

**Get involved…**  
To keep you all in the loop, we are planning on holding an ethical sourcing
event at Pact’s Bermondsey HQ. Customers and non-customers will be invited to
sit down with Stephen, Will and Rob to express their concerns regarding how we
source our coffee. We would love everyone to come down and give us
constructive advice around our ethical sourcing policy.

If you would like to contact Stephen (stephen@pactcoffee.com), Will
(will@pactcoffee.com) and Rob (rob@pactcoffee.com) directly about Pact and
ethical coffee sourcing, they would love you to hear from you.