---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Pact News
category: Pact News
class: blog
date: '2015-06-04T08:27:01+00:00'
date-shown: '2015-06-04'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/6-ways-pact-could-get-your-attention-on-facebook-from-this-years-d-ad-new-blood-awards
tags:
- D&AD
- Facebook
- New Blood
title: "6 ways Pact could get your attention on Facebook (from this year\u2019s D&AD
  New Blood Awards)"
---

Advertising. Some of it makes us want to spit out our coffee in horror at the
world! But the ad industry has some of the most excitingly creative minds out
there and going through the entries for this year’s D&AD New Blood Awards has
been a highlight of Pact’s year.

The annual New Blood Awards mark a big moment in the ad industry’s calendar.
It’s a time where today’s Don Drapers prick up their ears for the most
impressive new talent coming out of universities, ready with precious job
offers. A dozen briefs along the lines of ‘come up with an idea for this
business with this audience and this objective in mind’ go out to aspiring
students around the world, who then have around six months to prepare a
presentation of their big idea.

This year Pact’s was one of the D&AD briefs the students could choose from and
the shortlist has just been announced ahead of the big day on July 2nd.

##### 6 Shortlisted, of 135 Entries

We produced the brief in conjunction with Facebook and the students’ goal was
to come up with a concept that cleverly uses Facebook to get more people
interested in Pact.

The judging panel was made up of six industry experts, with one person from
Facebook and one from Pact. We each went through all the entries in our own
time and then sat together in a room for a day to vote on which ones should
make the final list.

##### Take a Coffee Break and Have a Look at These

So here are the six entries that made it to the end. If you like them, share
your appreciation in the comments or feel free to reach out to the entrants.
Although what we see here are quick videos a lot of thought goes into the
work!

###### Entry 1: DateLivery (Juan Francisco Posada, Simina Florea, Yulia
Suresenkova)

A cheeky entry brimming with fun and mischief. Video below and [full
submission here](http://www.dandad.org/awards/new-
blood/2015/facebook/2764/datelivery/).

###### Entry 2: DeliveryJob (Maria Pedrosa Riquelme, Nuria Munos Ramos)

A unique idea with a ‘social good’ angle that made it stand out. Video below
and [full submission here](http://www.dandad.org/awards/new-
blood/2015/facebook/2765/deliveryjob/).

###### Entry 3: The Fresh News (Taras Sgibnev & Anna Megrabyan)

This is the submission featured in the image at the top of this article. Such
a lovely concept and so immaculately presented. Video below and [full
submission here](http://www.dandad.org/awards/new-
blood/2015/facebook/2768/the-fresh-news/).

###### Entry 4: London Yawn Opera (Luis Nader, Juan San Román)

You had us at the title. Utterly bonkers and marvellous. Video below and [full
submission here](http://www.dandad.org/awards/new-
blood/2015/facebook/2770/london-yawn-opera/).

###### Entry 5: Your Coffeehouse (Jesper Wendelbo, Andreas Green Lorentzen)

A brilliant business concept for Pact and clever thinking around the
opportunities of Facebook as a technology. Video below and [full submission
here](http://www.dandad.org/awards/new-blood/2015/facebook/2773/your-
coffeehouse/).

###### Entry 6: A Roast for a Roast (Vincent Versluis, Florian Hollander)

The most original and enjoyable concept of those focussing on Pact’s growers.
A brilliant, tongue-in-cheek idea about bridging the gap. We couldn’t embed
the video in this post but the [full submission can be found
here](http://www.dandad.org/awards/new-blood/2015/facebook/2775/a-roast-for-a-
roast/).

##### Which ones get your vote?

Show your support for creativity and the future of the shortlisted entrants!
Post your thoughts in the comments, tweet [Pact
(@pactcoffee)](http://twitter.com/pactcoffee) or [D&AD
(@DandADNewBlood)](http://twitter.com/dandadnewblood), or share the link on
[you-know-where](http://facebook.com/pactcoffee).

Details about D&AD and the New Blood Awards on their site:
<http://www.dandad.org/awards>