---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Coffee
- Coffee pairings
- Pact News
- Pact Partners
category: Coffee
class: blog
date: '2015-12-02T15:18:33+00:00'
date-shown: '2015-12-02'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/its-christmas-we-have-coffee-cake-need-we-go-on
tags:
- Cake
- Christmas
- coffee
- Coffee and cake
- Cupcakes
- Hummingbird bakery
title: "It\u2019s Christmas, we have coffee & cake\u2026 need we go on?"
---

_This Christmas marks the creation of Pact’s first Christmas Blend coffee and
the start of an exciting partnership for us with Hummingbird Bakery. If you
love coffee and cake, settle in as we tell you the story behind how we came up
with the blend, and why we think it goes really, really well with a very
special cupcake from Hummingbird._

[![Christmas-70](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/12/1024x683xChristmas-70-1024x683.jpg.pagespeed.ic.s941PskARb.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/12/Christmas-70.jpg)

A coffee blend is created when roastmasters combine different beans to bring
together different characteristics and flavours in a single cup of coffee.
While the majority of coffees we sell at Pact are single origin, blending
coffees isn’t a bad thing and can be done to great effect.

Creating a really good blend is a masterful process. With Christmas in mind,
our coffee team, lead by the ever masterly Head of Coffee, Will Corby,
embarked on a series of strenuous tasting [cupping
sessions](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/2015/09/10/a-beginners-guide-to-cupping-
coffee/) and test roasts. They wanted to create something fruity that reminded
the senses of Christmas.

Two coffees from Guatemala were selected – Filadelfia Natural, grown high in
the mountains above the town Antigua and showing really strong strawberry
flavours, and Ojo de Agua, which has flavours of spices and nuts.

####

#### By Jove, it actually tastes like mince pies with double cream!

They roasted them a bit darker than if they were single origin filter and
found that a ratio of 60% Ojo de Agua to 40% Filadelfia Natural is what they
were looking for. After a couple more cupping sessions at Pact HQ, people were
blown away with the naturally Christmassy flavours coming through, leaving
Will to announce a flavour note of ‘mince pies’! When milk is added it gives
it the full [‘mince pies with double
cream’](https://www.pactcoffee.com/coffees/christmas-blend) experience.

#### Does it get any better than coffee and cake?

When the opportunity to partner with the amazing folks at [The Hummingbird
Bakery](https://hummingbirdbakery.com/) came up we jumped at the chance. You
will have heard us extolling the virtues of fresh roasted coffee, and even
comparing the roasting of the coffee bean to the toasting of good quality
bread or baking a cake. Freshness is key and when we put our coffee alongside
dull supermarket coffees we can really taste that!

The Hummingbird Bakery understands the value of freshness as well. All their
baking is done on-site at their bakeries on the day so it is super fresh. Like
our constantly rotating menu of coffees, they are also experts at creating
innovative options for their specials each month,trying out exciting favours
and handmade decorations.

#### Pairing our Christmas Coffee with the Hummingbird Christmas Spice cupcake

You may know The Hummingbird Bakery for their iconic cupcakes such as the
chocolate, vanilla and Red Velvet, or from one of their six bakeries around
London, or from their range of best-selling cookbooks. Founder Tarek, who
opened the first Hummingbird Bakery in Portobello Road in Notting Hill in
2004, got together with Pact Coffee Founder, Stephen, for a photoshoot over
coffee and cake in our grindhouse and roastery.

[![Hummingbird Christmas Bag Stephen Tarek-13](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/12/1024x683xHummingbird-Christmas-Bag-Stephen-
Tarek-13-1024x683.jpg.pagespeed.ic.Z3qgqDlL5E.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/12/Hummingbird-Christmas-Bag-Stephen-Tarek-13.jpg)

The Hummingbird Bakery recently launched their [special Christmas
range](https://hummingbirdbakery.com/order/christmas/). When our Head of
Coffee Will was asked to pair our Christmas Blend with one of these
Hummingbird cakes he sighed… “Man, this job is tough” he said, as he made his
way through the selection of delicious options. When pairing coffee and cake
he was looking for flavours that complement and supplemented each other.

It turns out Hummingbird have nailed it with their amazing specials alongside
their normal range of American cupcakes, layer cakes, mini cupcakes and more.
The eggnog and gingerbread specials are well worth a try, but it was the
Christmas Spice cupcake that caught Will’s attention. He was impressed with
the way it complemented the flavours in the Pact Coffee Christmas Blend. Here
it is in all its glory…

[![christmas spice side](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/12/christmas-spice-
side-1024x683.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/12/christmas-spice-side.jpg)

_Hungry? We thought so. If you’re in London we will be serving our Christmas
Blend as a filter coffee all day in the Hummingbird Bakery shops in_[
_Soho_](https://hummingbirdbakery.com/our-bakeries/soho/) _and_[
_Spitalfields_](https://hummingbirdbakery.com/our-bakeries/spitalfields/) _on
**Friday 4 December**. Come by, grab a Christmas Spice cupcake and try the
combination for yourself. [Or click
here](https://hummingbirdbakery.com/order/) __to place an order through their
site._