---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Coffee
category: Coffee
class: blog
date: '2015-08-28T14:07:55+00:00'
date-shown: '2015-08-28'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/is-pact-coffee-flavoured
tags:
- Acidity
- Coffee flavours
- flavour
- Flavoured Coffee
- Mouthfeel
- Natural
- Sweetness
- Tasting coffee
title: Is Pact Coffee flavoured?
---

##### [![](http://ec2-52-16-167-99.eu-west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/flavoured2-1024x683.png)](http://ec2-52-16-167-99.eu-
west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/flavoured2.png)

##### Artificial coffee flavouring isn’t something we believe at Pact.

**The brilliant thing about great coffees like the ones we sell is that they
have flavours that occur naturally. So in short, no, our coffees aren’t
flavoured, but we understand where the confusion comes from, so we’d like to
explain it a bit more.**

You might have noticed we often describe our coffees as tasting like desserts
or particular fruits. These are the flavour descriptions pulled out in our
tasting process by our Head of Coffee, Will. Any flavours he tastes are in the
bean itself, and they’re influenced by where and how the coffee is grown and
how it’s processed. The roasting process then unlocks these flavours,
emphasising all these natural flavours.

[![Will Cupping Kitchen HQ 5](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/820x547xWill-Cupping-Kitchen-
HQ-5-1024x683.jpg.pagespeed.ic.-_6SI0VMFg.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Will-Cupping-Kitchen-HQ-5.jpg)

##### So how do I taste my coffee? Well, think about tasting wine – but with
coffee!

This is a great comparison to make when deciphering the flavours in a cup of
fresh coffee. Wine isn’t flavoured, but it still has aromas that come from
things like the fermentation process, grape type or the temperature of the
place it was grown all affect the final taste.

So when we mention chocolates and fruits in the descriptions of our coffees,
they’re simply tasting notes identified by Will and are designed to help you
pick the right coffee for you.

[![blueberries](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/300x128xblueberries-300x128.png.pagespeed.ic.PJzqICNuHd.png)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/blueberries.png)

##### Why is my coffee described as tasting like a Blueberry Bomb?

A lot of people say “I don’t taste all the flavours you describe in your in
coffee, I just know what I do and don’t like.” It’s OK if you don’t always
taste the flavours we mention. We find a lot of the time this comes from the
limitations of the language used to describe what we taste. Have you ever
heard anyone say “if everything tastes like chicken, what does chicken taste
like?”

This pretty much sums up the trouble we can all have when describing flavours.
We can’t describe them directly, so we compare them to other things. We say
“tastes like chicken” because almost everyone can relate to it.

The same is true of coffee. It’s not that you’re tasting blueberries (or a
Blueberry Bomb), you’re brain is processing it as having the same qualities
that remind you of blueberries, and the only way you can describe the flavour
is to liken it to blueberries.

[![Cupping Lesson](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Cupping-
Lesson-1024x683.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Cupping-Lesson.jpg)

##### Tasting decoded

It’s kind of a motto of Will’s that _anyone can taste coffee like a pro at
home._ It’s all about deciphering four main things: **mouthfeel** ,
**acidity** , **s** **weetness** and **flavour.** Let’s break down what they
actually mean…

##### [![BLK Mouthfeel copy](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/BLK-Mouthfeel-
copy-150x150.png)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/BLK-
Mouthfeel-copy.png)Mouthfeel

This is literally the way the coffee feels in your mouth. It sounds abstract,
but it helps to compare it to textures of other food and drinks. Mouthfeel
ranges from juicy to tea-like. A coffee could coat your mouth like syrup, feel
buttery or even silky.

[![Food Wheels-1](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/Food-
Wheels-1-1024x857.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Food-Wheels-1.jpg)

##### [![Acid](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Acid-150x150.png)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Acid.png)Acidity

This is the sharpness you might feel when you take a sip. Some coffees will be
more acidic than others. The trick is to think about what kind of acid it
reminds you of.

Some acids are light and crisp like apples (this is called “malic”) or grapes
(this is “tartaric”), then there’s a range of citric acids similar to orange,
lemon and lime.

[![Food Wheels-4](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/Food-
Wheels-4-1024x683.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Food-Wheels-4.jpg)

##### [![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/BLk-
Sweetness1-150x150.png)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/BLk-Sweetness1.png)Sweetness

Different types of sugar have different types of sweetness. Same goes for the
sweetness in coffee.

Sweetness can be unrefined like cane sugar, or rich like honey or syrup.
There’s also jammy sweetness, ripe fruit, sherbet or brown sugar among a whole
lot more.

[![Food Wheels-3](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/Food-
Wheels-3-1024x683.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Food-Wheels-3.jpg)

##### [![Blk Flavour copy](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Blk-Flavour-
copy-150x150.png)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/Blk-
Flavour-copy.png)Flavour.

Flavour is a big one. Coffees can include an enormous range of flavours.
Basically, if you can imagine it, there’s likely to be a flavour to match.

All flavours fall under the sub-categories of chocolate, fruit, biscuit,
spice, floral, tea, nuts and miscellaneous (which are things like earthy and
creamy). Coffee beans with imperfections can also include negative flavours
like popcorn, burnt and vinegar.

****

**[![GS Latte Art Bag Card Bagel Bar-4](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/GS-Latte-Art-Bag-Card-Bagel-
Bar-4-e1440171558763-1024x627.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/GS-Latte-Art-Bag-Card-Bagel-
Bar-4-e1440171558763.jpg)**

##### Taste in your own kitchen

We can’t encourage you enough to get to know what you like when it comes to
coffee. Try tasting your coffee at home, see what flavours you can pick up. If
you take milk and/or sugar then perhaps try it black before adding them as you
will find it a little easier to pick out the flavours. Most deliveries come
with a coffee card in pack, so you can go through the card and learn a little
more about what you’re drinking, where it comes from and the way we’ve tasted
it here at Pact HQ. **Pro tip from Will:** “ _Try rolling the coffee around in
your mouth before swallowing. Think about the different elements of taste and
see what you find_ “

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Blog_card1-726x1024.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/Blog_card1.jpg)