---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Behind the scenes
- Coffee
- Pact News
category: Behind the scenes
class: blog
date: '2015-11-13T17:23:35+00:00'
date-shown: '2015-11-13'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/were-in-the-home-stretch
tags:
- Capsules
- Coffee Pods
- Pods
- Research and development
title: "We\u2019re in the home stretch\u2026"
---

_Here’s the story behind the development of Pact Coffee Pods_

[![Pod Lifestyle](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/Pod-
Lifestyle-1024x683.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/11/Pod-Lifestyle.jpg)

As Pact’s grown in the past three years, we’ve used customer feedback as our
north star for making big decisions. A major part of that is that they’re
seriously good ideas, but it also allows us to improve the customer experience
and make it as delightful as possible. Win, win really.

Since the start, one of the requests we’ve received over and over again was
for Pact Coffee in a pod capsule. Turns out [1 in 5
people](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/retailandconsumer/11849322/A-generation-
of-coffee-snobs-many-youngsters-now-refuse-to-drink-instant.html) in the UK
now have a pod machine in their home, thanks to those clever folks from a
certain Swiss company (you know who we mean). Their hugely popular method for
making espresso means coffee drinkers can now get that espresso hit in an
instant in the comfort of their home!

Being the coffee nuts that we are, we knew we could produce a great-tasting
pod with our very own exceptional coffees inside.

##### Getting started

18 months ago, we got to work crafting our own coffee pod made from our
freshly roasted coffee. We found out straight away that success was tied to
three main factors: the size of the grind, the roast and just how much to put
inside. On top of that, we realised good packaging was integral to keeping the
coffee fresh.

##### Grind and shake

When it comes to grinding beans, we’re very proud of the expertise we’ve
developed in-house. After all, the thing that sets Pact apart from its
supermarket counterparts in that it arrives perfectly ground to suit your brew
method. We know having evenly-sized grind particles is vital to good
extraction…

…Which is how we ended up with our special shaking machine, which is what we
used to separate the finest coffee particles. It’s the tool that let us
produce a coffee that’s consistently ground to the nearest 70 microns – that’s
less than the width of a human hair!

[![Slack for iOS Upload \(1\)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/11/Slack-for-iOS-
Upload-1-1024x685.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/11/Slack-for-iOS-Upload-1.jpg)

##### Perfectly roasted

A lot of pods out there at the moment rely on a dark roast for a bold flavour
and to make up for the fact pods contain far less coffee than other brew
methods. At Pact, we deliberately roast our beans lighter than the industry
average (you can read about ‘[Why we roast the way we
do](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/2014/08/13/why-we-roast-the-way-we-do/)’ on our
blog). So, naturally, we wanted to make sure our pods weren’t over-roasted.

Throughout our testing, we found that lighter roasts produced a watery coffee
while darker roasts could end up with a very bitter taste. Our main goal has
been to find the perfect balance between the two.

There’s a real science to making the perfect espresso. The professionals
measure the Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) in an espresso to see how well the
extraction has gone i.e. how much of the coffee is actually dissolved, coffee
to water.  
Getting that percentage right is what brings you the great coffee taste,
aroma, body, and creaminess of the perfect espresso drink. For Pact Coffee
pods we were looking between 18-22% – we measure it with a clever tool called
a refractometer.

[![Slack for iOS Upload \(2\)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/11/Slack-for-iOS-
Upload-2-1024x682.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/11/Slack-for-iOS-Upload-2.jpg)

##### The right dose

When we say dose, we mean the amount of coffee inside the pod. Given how small
they are and the fact that water makes the coffee expand, you really don’t
want too much or too little coffee. We’ve worked out the sweet spot is
somewhere around 5g – 5.5g.

_Side note: If you’re wondering how we’re reaching all these conclusions, it
comes down to testing and tasting then testing, tasting again and again, until
our pods are as good as they could possibly be. We’ve got Pact customers to
try them, we’ve tried them ourselves along with pretty much anyone along the
way that’s been interested in helping us get it right. As we mentioned
earlier, we love feedback!_

##### Packaging matters. A lot.

The final piece of the puzzle is packaging. Making sure our coffee pods get
delivered to our customers as fresh as possible doesn’t only rely on the
coffee inside of the pod, but also in the packaging itself.

We spent a long, long time working on biodegradable options – various
companies (perhaps most prominently
[Lavazza](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/retailandconsumer/11457903/Single-
serving-coffee-pods-without-the-whiff-of-guilt.html)) claim to have worked
this out so we were keen to try them. But you’ll notice you don’t find them
readily available on the market yet, and we soon found out why.

[![Screenshot 2015-11-06 at 11.29.27 AM](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/11/706x408xScreenshot-2015-11-06-at-11.29.27-AM.png.pagespeed.ic.9LV2rDoavw.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/11/Screenshot-2015-11-06-at-11.29.27-AM.png)

Of course, the whole point of pods is to keep the coffee fresh. The more
exposed your coffee is to oxygen, the more quickly it will oxidize and start
to go stale. We found the biodegradable options didn’t form enough of a
barrier to oxygen (one option was to individually wrap them in plastic but
that seemed counterproductive!). The taste of the coffee was affected by
flavours from the material they were made from, and on occasion they just fell
apart in the machine.

We’re committed to following the development of biodegradable options closely
and are really hopeful they’ll get better soon so we can one day use them
ourselves.

In the meantime we’ve chosen to use polybutylene terephthalate (PBT) for the
pod… this is a common type of plastic that is used in many other types of
packaging found in your local store. It has a great chemical resistance when
used with extreme heat, is fully-recyclable and doesn’t allow oxygen to flow
through, sealing in our wonderfully fresh coffee and resulting in a great
tasting coffee.

##### In the home stretch

We’re getting so close to reaching our goal of producing pods with the same
great taste as a regular bag of Pact Coffee, and we’re proud to say they’re
almost there!

_THANK YOU to everyone who backed our[ Kickstarter
campaign](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/600258854/the-best-coffee-
youve-ever-made-now-in-a-pod)._