---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Behind the scenes
- Brew Guides
- Coffee
category: Behind the scenes
class: blog
date: '2016-09-15T11:01:02+00:00'
date-shown: '2016-09-15'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/weve-nailed-it-the-ultimate-ready-to-drink-cold-brew
tags:
- Cold Brew
title: "We\u2019ve nailed it; the ultimate ready-to-drink cold brew"
---

**[![cold-brew-1](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/1714x1143xCOld-
BRew-1-1024x683.jpg.pagespeed.ic.Cpd6KinaDx.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/COld-BRew-1.jpg)**

**We love cold brew.** We love how clean and crisp and refreshing it is. We
love how complex the flavours can be. We love how the super-long extraction
allows the true character of a coffee to shine through in all its
gorgeousness. And we love how much you love it.

**To that end** we’ve spent most of this summer working to understand the
process of cold brewing and perfecting that process. We’re not talking tips
and recipes, we’re talking bottles of it, brewed to taste as exquisite as cold
brew can, using specially-developed equipment under the exacting eyes of our
expert coffee team.

**And now we’ve cracked it.** The production methods are small scale at the
moment (there are only 48 orders available as we write) and the presentation
is all a bit rough and ready. But a makeover can wait, because the quality of
this cold brew speaks for itself.

[ ![coldbrew3](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/300x200xColdBrew3-300x200.jpg.pagespeed.ic.DBCnF_JRLr.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/ColdBrew3.jpg)

**Here’s how we did it.**

**First the technique.**

Initially we experimented with V60s over ice but an overly bitter taste
profile emerged as the hot coffee cooled. Conversely the longer extraction
process of cold brewing produced a more balanced sweeter profile. The reason
for the difference is the higher temperatures of V60 brewing are powerful
enough to extract the bitter elements of the coffee from the ground, whereas a
cold brew leaves them unextracted.

So, we began work on a cold total immersion method, using a large coffee
filter within a sealed vat. Results were disappointing, tasting more like
vaguely coffee-flavoured water than decent cold brew. So we tried a finer
filter. There was some improvement but the team weren’t satisfied so we mixed
the coffee directly into the water and allowed the extraction to take place
over 24 hours, filtering it post-extraction.

Since coffee is essentially an emulsion of oil and water we used a nylon mesh
filter to remove the grounds. This left behind the oils and fats that give
coffee its enjoyably rich and heavy texture. The results tasted good but
during feedback sessions with the team, the oily residue left behind by the
nylon filter was found to be unpopular. We needed to filter it further.

  
**Then modifications and problem solving.**

  
The next logical step was a double filtration process, first with nylon and
then with paper, similar to that we’d use with a V60. We found that as the oil
was removed, the aromatic capacity of the coffee expanded. It tasted
fantastic, with really nice clarity and excellent balance.

If this makes the production process sound simple, it shouldn’t. As we
developed our cold brew other issues arose and modifications were made
accordingly. Through various tasting sessions the team noticed oxidisation was
creeping into the flav[![coldbrew5](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/300x200xColdBrew5-300x200.jpg.pagespeed.ic.ImoZyd2BH8.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/ColdBrew5.jpg)our profile, resulting in an unpleasant
staleness. The vat needed to be made airtight to counter this, so the
equipment went through one of many overhauls.

Pasteurisation was also no mean feat, but something we were committed to
achieving. The solution – it turned out – was to manufacture what is
essentially a 40 litre sous vide, which holds the coffee at an exact
temperature for a sustained amount of time, allowing the flavour compounds to
develop gradually.

**Then the bean.**

In the bid to find the perfect cold brew bean we tried every single coffee we
stock. At the outset we anticipated a tried and tested favourite like Planalto
would fare the best. This well-balanced chocolatey Brazilian has long been a
favourite on the Pact menu, among customers and the team alike.

But in the process of trial, error and more trial we made a discovery. The
coffees that are most perfectly balanced when brewed with hot water become
unbalanced when brewed with cold. Planalto, when extracted through our cold
brew process, didn’t have enough acidity to balance out the taste profile and
its distinctive and popular characteristics were lost.

[![bag-cup-of-coffee_9](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/300x200xBag-Cup-of-
Coffee_9-300x200.jpg.pagespeed.ic.V9uYqfrAsQ.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/Bag-Cup-of-Coffee_9.jpg)We soon discovered the
opposite was true for one of our Ethiopian washed coffees. Brewed hot this
coffee, Kayon Mountain Guji Washed, can have an intense acidity taste profile
and a lingering bitterness which, while really popular with some customers,
makes it a bit of an outlier on our menu. But when brewed cold Kayon Mountain
Guji Washed came into its own in a way that staggered the team. Suddenly a
slightly difficult, punchy coffee revealed a delightful acidity profile and a
really unusual toffee sweetness that the team hadn’t really encountered from a
coffee before, least of all an Ethiopian. We’d found our coffee.

So, what little we’ve managed to produce so far is ready for you to try. When
Kayon Mountain Guji Washed is extracted with the cold water its harshest
acidity remains unleashed, while the paper filter enables a
[![coldbrew4](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/300x200xColdBrew4-300x200.jpg.pagespeed.ic.lnY8inW2_k.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/ColdBrew4.jpg)release of volatile aromatic compounds
that increases the complexity of its flavour profile. Put simply it’s cold
brew at its best.

We’re immensely proud of it and we sincerely hope you enjoy drinking it as
much as we’ve enjoyed perfecting it!