---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Coffee
- Pact News
category: Coffee
class: blog
date: '2016-04-21T13:53:21+00:00'
date-shown: '2016-04-21'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/pods-beta-testing-what-were-doing-to-deliver-better-tasting-pods
tags:
- Beta testing
- coffee
- community
- Nespresso
- Pact Pods
- Pods
title: "Pods Beta Testing: What we\u2019re doing to deliver better-tasting pods"
---

_After 18 months of research and development, we’ve produced a pod we’re
really proud of, but we’re not stopping there. Read on to learn more about why
we’re beta testing our pods…_

[![Pods Kitchen-0920](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/04/1024x683xPods-
Kitchen-0920-1024x683.jpg.pagespeed.ic.CmuYkCtICy.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/04/Pods-Kitchen-0920.jpg)

Pact Pods have been a real labour of love for us. Following mountains of
requests from our customers, we embarked on our mission. We wanted to offer a
better alternative to the big guys; one that values, above all else, flavour,
quality, and [making a positive impact at
origin](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/2016/03/29/direct-trade-and-why-it-
matters/).

[So after 18 months of R&D](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/2015/11/13/were-in-the-
home-stretch/), we released Pact Pods, filled with our own freshly roasted,
Directly Traded, speciality coffee. And we’re incredibly proud of the first
round of pods. The flavours really are a cut above the rest – even _Caffeine_
magazine gave them the thumbs up:

[![Caffeine Magazine Pact Coffee Pods Review](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/04/768x1024xIMG_6630-768x1024.jpg.pagespeed.ic.tJlNVSYCK4.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/04/IMG_6630.jpg)

_“this would make a very good alternative for the average Nespresso user –
it’s a great coffee to help make the move towards more subtle and flavoursome
speciality coffees”_

However, being new to the game, we couldn’t rest there. Which is why, as with
everything we do at Pact, collecting customer feedback for those initial pods
was our top priority. The experiences of those first pods drinkers set the
wheels in motion for how we could make the next round even better than the
first.

##### We’re beta testing our pods…

For a lot of people “beta” might sound a little sci-fi, but what it really
means is that we’re testing Pact Pods on a large scale by releasing them into
the wild. It’s our way of working out exactly what we need to do to keep
making our pods better by eliminating any teething problems while also
striving to create a more environmentally sustainable pod*.

Beta testing is a common stage in the development of new products. However,
unlike many other companies, we’ve decided to get our community involved –
much the same way we used a crowdfunding campaign to help get them off the
ground.

By asking our community of coffee lovers for help throughout this process,
we’re confident we’ll get honest, real-life feedback from people who are
dedicated to our mission of offering a great-tasting pod that also has an
enormous positive impact at origin.

##### This is where you come in, dear pod drinker…

At last count, we’d spent more than 700 hours chatting, emailing, tweeting and
meeting with 1,397 different customers, who’ve shared valuable information
that’s helping us to improve our pods. But we want to hear from more of you!

**If you’ve tried Pact Pods and have some feedback that could help us in our
mission, we’d love to hear from you.** Good, bad or somewhere in between all
feedback is incredibly precious to us.

The best way to get in touch is by either [emailing our special “Beta
Taskforce”](mailto:beta@pactcoffee.com), or visiting our [UserVoice
Forum](https://pactcoffee.uservoice.com/forums/361233-pact-pods-beta-feedback)
and starting the conversation there.

##### _Experiencing problems with your pods?  
_

_Some of the feedback we’ve already received is that a few pods experienced
performance issues. We’re offering a refund for any pods that aren’t working
properly. So, if you’ve had problems with any of your Pact Pods please do_[
_get in touch_](mailto:ahoy@pactcoffee.com) _to let us know._

_*Throughout the design process we were determined to create a more
sustainable pod. Unfortunately, the technology for creating biodegradable pod
casings isn’t there yet, and all the options we explored weren’t up to scratch
when it came to preserving the lovely flavour and freshness of our coffee. As
part of our commitment to sustainability, we chose materials that are all
fully recyclable (plus, coffee makes great compost!). We take this issue
really seriously and continue to keep an eye out for better, more sustainable
alternatives._