---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Coffee
category: Coffee
class: blog
date: '2017-10-13T13:14:29+00:00'
date-shown: '2017-10-13'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/newly-discovered-variety-rocks-the-specialty-coffee-world
tags:
- Origin
- specialty coffee
title: Newly-discovered variety rocks the specialty coffee world
---

![Alfredo Pacas](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/10/1000x667xDSCF9641.jpg.pagespeed.ic.zM5neTXpX-.jpg)Alfredo
Pacas has been the driving force behind the genetic purification of the
Bernadina variety. Here he is looking out over his coffee farm, on the hill in
the distance.

The coffee-growers of Central and South America are facing a big problem. In
El Salvador alone, disease has slashed the productivity of their farms from
three million bags for export in 2011, to fewer than a million bags in 2017.
Many are taking drastic action; replacing traditional varieties with coffee
trees that are more resistant to disease but produce coffee of a lower
quality.

But that’s not the way siblings Maria, Alf and Marcella Pacas see the future
of coffee-growing. Instead they work tirelessly to keep their farms healthy
and diverse using natural methods. It is this relentless devotion to quality
coffee and the maintenance of coffee’s natural habitat that has lead to an
amazing discovery by Cafe Pacas. They’ve unearthed a completely new variety of
coffee: “Bernadina”. Here’s how they did it…

**Step 1: Come from a serious coffee family.**

[![The Pacas siblings](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/10/300x200xDSCF9573-300x200.jpg.pagespeed.ic.rFfJWK_GZQ.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/10/DSCF9573-e1507901283585.jpg) Maria, Alfredo and
Marcela Pacas in their nursery.

Two generations ago and around 100 years ago, Maria, Alf and Marcella’s
grandfather discovered a new coffee variety amongst the trees growing on his
farm. Their father knew the discovery was important, so he set about planting
coffee trees out and, as they grew, removing those that reverted to earlier
genetic types. In doing so he weeded out the plants that diluted the variety,
making it stronger and more distinct. This bold new coffee took their family
name, Pacas, and around a century later it is planted on farms across Brazil,
Colombia and much of Central America.

This dedication to pure, high quality coffee has been passed down to the next
generation. Now Alf is a world-renowned coffee agronomist, teaching at the
University of San Salvador, as well as on masters programs in Europe, which
are attended by coffee farmers from across the world.

**Step 2: Pay attention to detail.**

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/10/300x200xDSCF9570-300x200.jpg.pagespeed.ic.smgvyFH0K3.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/10/DSCF9570-e1507900960277.jpg) The Pacas nursery – this
is where the bernadina trees were propagated.

With a heritage like theirs, it’s no surprise that the Pacas family are
incredibly dedicated to the quality of the coffee they grow and get involved
in every aspect of running their plantations. So in 2006, when they acquired
some new land a farm name Finca Los Bellotos, the farm manager there was keen
to show them a group of trees bearing cherries that stood out as different.

It was clear to the siblings that this coffee was something special, so it was
picked and processed separately and tended with great care. Then, as the
coffee was de-pulped (the process where the cherry is removed from the pulp
that grows around it) people across the mill stopped what they were doing to
find out what the extraordinary aroma coming from the depulpers was….

**Step 3: Get a second opinion. And a third.**

On the first couple of tastings the family were convinced they’d discovered a
‘Geisha’. A Geisha is a relatively new and highly sought after variety, which
has commanded prices as high as US$100/lb in recent years. They were thrilled
but then further inspection by Geisha experts revealed the leaf and tree
structures of the Pacas variety did not match up.

After a great deal of head-scratching, Alf sent a sample of the Pacas’
mysterious beans to a genetics lab in Italy. This time the results were beyond
doubt; for the second time in their coffee-growing history the Pacas family
had discovered a new variety of coffee.

**Step 4: Have patience.**

Naming a new coffee is no mean feat. Obviously Pacas was taken by their
grandfather’s discovery, so Alf, Maria and Marcella decided to honor the name
of the farm manager Bernadino who had first brought the coffee to their
attention.

“Bernadina” was born.

Armed with a name for their genetically-verified new coffee it was time for
Alf to set about purifying the variety, just as his father had before him.
Three years passed in which Bernadina was planted out in different farms, at
different altitudes, always in plenty of shade. Gradually the non-regular
Bernadina trees were removed and the first small production of this brand new
coffee was ready for harvest. And – thanks to Will (our Head of Coffee) and
his relationship with the Pacas – we’ve managed to get hold of a single sack
of Bernadina for you to taste.

**Step 5: Share with your fellow coffee-lovers.**

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/10/300x200xS80A5503-300x200.jpg.pagespeed.ic.HsWenPyL7Z.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/10/S80A5503.jpg)

We’re selling 200 lots of Bernadina as part of our [Gold Dust Coffee Club
membership](https://www.pactcoffee.com/shop/gold-dust-coffee-club-ticket),
which costs £150 and entitles the holder to five 250g tins of incredibly rare,
limited-edition coffees, sent throughout 2018.

This price simply reflects the scarcity – and so cost – of the green coffee
we’re buying. And we’re buying it exclusively for Pact customers; Berndina
will not be able to buy anywhere else in the UK this year.

The price also reflects the way Bernadina has been painstakingly tended. As
you’ve read, discovering a new coffee isn’t as simple as happening upon it on
the tree. Each plant has been scrupulously tended, each cherry has been picked
when it’s perfectly ripe and the beans have been processed separately to all
the other coffee on the farm. All this has been undertaken to help Bernadina
to shine as a newly-discovered gem of the specialty coffee world. The Pacas
wouldn’t want to introduce it to coffee-lovers like you in any other way.

**Bernadina – THE FACTS**

  * Bernadina is brand new to the specialty coffee scene.
  * Pact is the only place you’ll be able to buy Bernadina in the UK this year.
  * The variety was first discovered 10 years ago, and then verified three years ago by a genetics lab in Italy.
  * At the moment there are only 500kg of this coffee on the planet.
  * Thanks to our relationships with Maria, Alf and Marcella, we’ve managed to get hold of 69kg for you to try.
  * It has been grown by the Pacas family, legends in the coffee-growing industry.
  * It is named after the farm manager who first noticed there was something special about Bernadina’s trees.
  * It is available exclusively to Pact customers as tin 1 of 5 of [Gold Dust Coffee Club membership](https://www.pactcoffee.com/shop/gold-dust-coffee-club-ticket), which costs £150.