---
author: willcorby
categories:
- Direct Trade
- Origin stories
category: Direct Trade
class: blog
date: '2017-06-26T07:00:57+00:00'
date-shown: '2017-06-26'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/working-with-africas-most-influential-women-in-business
tags: []
title: "Working with Africa\u2019s Most Influential Women in Business"
---

[![A photo of Epiphanie Mukashyaka and Will Corby, Head of Coffee at
Pact](http://ec2-34-251-128-246.eu-west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/06/IMG_7475-1024x768.jpg)](http://ec2-34-251-128-246.eu-
west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/IMG_7475.jpg)

As far as I’m concerned, being Head of Coffee is a pretty sweet gig. If you’re
into travel, coffee cupping and sharing hidden coffee gems with your fellow
coffee-lovers, you’d probably enjoy it as much as I do. But – bragging aside –
one of my favourite things about my job is getting to know the farmers we work
with.

Recently, on a trip to Rwanda, I was reunited with one of my all-time
favourites. Epiphanie Mukashyaka is hands-down one of the most inspiring,
down-to-earth people on the specialty coffee scene. The beans she produces
approach the divine and the story of how she came to be where she is now is
certainly one that’s worth telling.

**Coffee as a lifeline.**

Epiphanie’s introduction to growing coffee came through her late husband. They
had a small-scale coffee farm of their own; their coffee was sold locally, it
was nothing too flash but they got by. Then in 1994 tragedy struck and
genocide left Epiphanie a widow with seven children to care for. Coffee was
all she knew but she couldn’t run the farm alone. Something had to change, so
she appealed PEARL and USAID for help, and after a great deal of hard work she
launched Bufcoffee Ltd.

The hard work paid off. Bufcoffee now produces and exports coffee across the
world, while offering social and economic support to 4,608 women and a great
many small coffee farmers.

**Standing up for the little guy.**

Bufcoffee’s ethos ties in closely with ours here at Pact. Epiphanie quickly
realised that, by reducing the number of people in the supply chain between
the farmer and exporter, she could increase the amount of money paid to coffee
growers. One of her first steps in doing this was to open the Remera Washing
Station in 2003 (in doing so Epiphanie became the first woman to own a coffee
washing station in Rwanda).

More stations soon followed, all of which process coffee cherries from as many
as 7,000 small farms in the Bufundo region of Rwanda today. Without those
stations these small farmers could not process their cherries to such a high
standard and would be forced to sell them at an unfairly low price.

**Keeping it in the family.**

As well as inspiring countless women across Rwanda, Epiphanie has been an
incredible role-model to her own daughters; two of Epiphanie’s daughters now
own their own export businesses, whilst another has recently become the
supervisor at the family’s newest washing station. Epiphanie’s son, Sam has
also gone into the family business and now oversees the day to day management
of Bufcoffee, which is currently expanding into neighbouring provinces of
Rwanda, leaving Epiphanie to concentrate on her real passion…

**A day with Epiphanie.**

She may have been crowned Africa’s Most Influential Women in Business and
Government but Epiphanie has never forgotten where she came from. Spending
time with her means lots of travel and lots of getting your hands dirty.
Following her prayers each morning, Epiphanie busies herself checking on the
night’s coffee deliveries and ensuring that everything is running smoothly
with processing. Then she likes nothing more than calling on each of the
Bufcoffee washing stations, working closely with coffee producers on ways they
can improve both the quality and quantity of the cherries they produce.

Basically she never stops. And she’s not some enthusiastic amateur, her
coffees have won several prestigious awards, including the Golden Cup in 2007,
and Cup of Excellence in 2008, 2010, 2011, 2013, and 2014. I’m really proud to
be able to call Epiphanie a friend and to be able to bring her coffees to the
Pact menu. I hope you enjoy them as much as I do.

By Will Corby