---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Behind the scenes
category: Behind the scenes
class: blog
date: '2017-09-15T14:30:44+00:00'
date-shown: '2017-09-15'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/stephen-gray-a-cut-above-the-roast
tags:
- coffee roasting
- Pact HQ
- quality control
title: 'Stephen Gray: A cut above the roast'
---

![A photo of Stephen Gray, a roaster at Pact
Coffee](http://ec2-34-251-128-246.eu-west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/09/S80A0397-200x300.jpg)

If you’re looking for Stephen Gray, check the Grindhouse, where he can be seen
meticulously roasting a batch of beans. Or maybe head to the kitchen where his
daily quality controlling of our coffee is taking place. If it’s Wednesday
morning, he might even be leading our internal coffee class; teaching us the
key to cupping. Today, however, he’s sitting down and telling us what it takes
to be a Quality Controller & Production Roaster at Pact…

**How did you become a roaster?**

I’ve always loved coffee, and when I moved to the UK from Australia I heard
about Pact from a friend and I immediately applied for a role here. I started
working in the Grindhouse as a fulfilment operative, grinding, weighing and
packing the coffee to be sent out. After a while, I was given a few
opportunities to work with the previous quality control manager and the coffee
team, and eventually was offered a full-time role as a production and quality
control (QC) assistant. With experience and some training from our Head
Roaster and Head of Coffee, I took on more responsibility, and became a fully
fledged roaster and quality controller!

**How long have you been at Pact?**

I’ve worked at Pact for two years, and I have been a roaster/quality
controller for just over one.

**What does a day at Pact look like for you?**

Every day, we start off by cupping the previous day’s batches to check for
roast consistency. It’s an important job, and it’s always great to begin your
day tasting fantastic coffee! After this, we’ll plan the day’s roasting; we
always roast for the next day, so that customers receive our coffee that is as
fresh as possible. From here, depending on the day or week, my jobs will
differ. Tuesday is roaster maintenance day; Wednesday one of us will be
running the weekly internal coffee class. Besides this, with a dual role of
production roaster & quality controller, I might be doing the production
roasting for the day, but if we’ve received samples of green coffee, I’m
responsible for the management and QC testing of these. Otherwise, I could be
doing the weekly grinder calibration check, where I run a sample of finely
ground coffee from each of them through an espresso machine, measuring the
difference in flow rate, and adjusting the burrs where necessary. I also
handle most of the new product testing for the commercial team – checking that
a new brew device can provide the right extraction, or developing a recipe for
it to do so.

**What measures do you put in place to ensure we send out the highest quality
coffee?**

For every coffee we buy, I run a full suite of physical quality tests at
various stages – these tests include measuring moisture, density, size and
distribution, as well as defect counts (literally counting beans), to ensure
coffees meet our quality standards. Once a coffee is in production, we cup
(taste-test) every batch we roast, to ensure customers are receiving
consistently top-notch coffee. I’m also responsible for maintaining
consistency of grind between our three production grinders (which between them
push out up to 700kg of coffee a day), so I spend a lot of time analysing
relative particle distribution, standard deviation and coefficient of
variation to keep them calibrated – exciting stuff!

[![A photo of Stephen Gray cupping at Pact](http://ec2-34-251-128-246.eu-
west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/09/S80A3262-1024x683.jpg)](http://ec2-34-251-128-246.eu-
west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/S80A3262.jpg)

**What is your least favourite part of the job?**

Defect counts. It’s a really important quality check, but the testing process
is literally counting beans. It’s very time-consuming, and it’s also a lot of
pressure as large purchase contracts can hinge on the number of defects from
particular categories, so I have to have a lot of confidence in my knowledge
of the specific types of defects.

**What has been the highlight of your time at Pact?**

Earlier this year, we received a bunch of pre-shipment samples from Honduras
for testing and sample roasting. This was to coincide with a visit from the
agronomist who worked with those farms, and who, according to our Head of
Coffee, was “probably the second best cupper in the world”. Normally, after I
run the physical tests on the samples, our Head Roaster would handle the
sample roasting, but as he was away, it was up to me to roast all 32 samples
of this amazing quality coffee; for the second best cupper in the world. This
was really high pressure, but I just put everything I had into it. At the end
of the cupping, the agronomist turned to us and asked who had roasted the
coffees, and I cautiously said that it was me. He said, “You’re a good roaster
– keep up the good work.” Working at Pact has provided me with the opportunity
to learn an exciting and unique skill, continuously push myself, meet
incredible people, and work with really high-quality coffee!

**What is your current favourite coffee and brew method?**

This morning I had the leftover of a Rwandan coffee sample we received last
week which had a really sweet peaches and cream flavour; so that might be an
exciting one coming down the pipeline! But from what we have currently in
production, I’m really enjoying El Sapote – from our Micro-Lot Plan – you
can’t pass up a good washed Honduran coffee. In terms of brew method, my go-to
is the Clever Dripper for ease of use, or V60 for a lighter, cleaner brew.
I’ve also just bought a new adjustable burner for my syphon, so I’m going to
be doing some experimenting at the weekend with that!

[![A photo of Stephen Gray in the Grindhouse at Pact
Coffee](http://ec2-34-251-128-246.eu-west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/09/S80A0470-1024x683.jpg)](http://ec2-34-251-128-246.eu-
west-1.compute.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/S80A0470.jpg)