---
author: Lowri at Pact
categories:
- Coffee
- Direct Trade
- Origin stories
category: Coffee
class: blog
date: '2018-01-30T13:42:03+00:00'
date-shown: '2018-01-30'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/we-named-this-beautiful-coffee-after-our-daughter
tags:
- Speciality coffee
- Valentine's Day
title: "\u201CWe named this beautiful coffee after our daughter.\u201D"
image_path: ../../assets/img/illustration/01.png
---

#### The story behind La Valentina.

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/01/995x466xDSCF8525-1.jpg.pagespeed.ic.ESeJaoL7RN.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/01/DSCF8525-1.jpg)

The latest coffee to grace our Micro-Lot range is an elegant little treasure
from Honduras, which has been produced with expertise, care and love. The
coffee was grown by Carlos Ernestor Mejia Rodriguez and his wife, Nelsy
Castillo David, so it seemed only right that they name their farm and thus
their coffee after their first daughter, Valentina.

We caught up with Carlos to find out more about life as a coffee grower and
the secret behind their stunningly flavoursome, perfectly-balanced beans.

**Pact:** How long have you been growing coffee?

**Carlos:** Since I was 20 years old. In our community of San Pedro de Tutule,
everyone has a plot of land where they grow coffee. No matter what their
profession. So, even though my parents sent me to the city to study, I still
had 2,000 coffee plants to look after as well.

**Pact:** So pretty much everyone produces coffee where you’re from?

**Carlos:** Yes. This custom has been carried on from generation to
generation, in the good and the bad times, we don’t stop the coffee
production. We all share advice on how to grow the best-tasting coffee. And
celebrate each other’s success.

**[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/01/300x200xNursery_Honduras-300x200.jpg.pagespeed.ic.FNr0xF2y5w.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/01/Nursery_Honduras.jpg)Pact:** It sounds like a special
place.

**Carlos:** Yes. Our region produces such delicious coffee that it is
considered a reserve for specialty coffees like Valentina. It is also
beautiful. Our farm is on the Montecillos Mountain Range, located at
approximately 1650 metres above sea level. It isn’t too big but we feel very
lucky to live and work here. We love it.

**Pact:** So in a region of coffee-growing experts, who has taught you the
most about growing coffee?

**Carlos:** My parents were both talented coffee producers but it’s my wife
Nelsy’s mother who gave us our land. She taught us how to work it alongside
her to produce the best coffee. My mother-in-law is a very hard-working woman,
she showed us that the more effort we put into the plants, the better the
harvest.

**Pact:** So do you like coffee yourself?

**Carlos:** Of course! We feel great satisfaction in harvesting something that
we love and we’ve worked hard for. Growing specialty coffee isn’t easy but
it’s worth the effort.

**Pact:** So what’s it like on La Valentina at harvest time?

**Carlos:** It’s a busy time but everyone on the farm works with great care.
Each bean is only collected when it’s 100% red [ripe]. Then they are
ecologically pulped and fermented to get that special touch of quality. Once
washed, the coffee is dried in dome-shaped solar dryers, which have elevated
screens. That means there is no contact with the floor and the drying process
is hygenic and uniform. My wife is in charge of this process and she has
worked hard to improve the quality of our coffee in recent harvests. She is a
hard-working woman like her mother!

**Pact:** So it’s a real family effort…

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/01/300x200xDSCF8513.jpg.pagespeed.ic.iMJ-k4FQfz.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/01/DSCF8513.jpg)Valentina and her little sister

**Carlos:** Oh yes, the entire family is involved from the harvest to the
drying process. But we also hire 20 temporary workers to harvest all the
coffee and six permanent workers, who are in charge of the milling process.
We’re proud that our farm generates jobs in our community.

**Pact:** So what advice do you share with your fellow coffee-farmers?

**Carlos:** To grow special coffee you have to learn to produce and handle
coffee with love. Only then will it be good enough to enter the specialty
coffee markets abroad. Every day I will keep improving my coffee’s quality and
I hope to pass on my love for quality coffee to my descendants – including
Valentina of course!

**Keen to try La Valentina for yourself?[Upgrade to Pact Micro-Lot today
>](https://welcome.pactcoffee.com/microlot-upgrade-valentina/)**