---
author: Lydia
categories:
- Recipes
category: Recipes
class: blog
date: '2018-06-29T14:22:25+00:00'
date-shown: '2018-06-29'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/just-cold-brew-it-tasty-tips-to-keep-cool-and-caffeinated
tags:
- coffee
- Cold Brew
- Cold Brew Jug
- espresso martini
- Summer
title: 'Just cold brew it: tasty tips to keep cool and caffeinated'
image_path: ../../assets/img/illustration/01.png
---

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/800x533xcold-brew-
jug.png.pagespeed.ic.Su3h43WLtf.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2013/07/cold-brew-jug.png)

Doesn’t this time of year just make you want to snuggle up with a steaming cup
and a good book? No? Yeah, us neither. But even though the heat is on and
you’ve almost forgotten that this is Britain, not Costa del Sol, it doesn’t
mean you should say adiós to world-class coffee. Clear some space in the
fridge, grab one of our [cold brew kits](https://www.pactcoffee.com/shop/cold-
brew-kit) and step into summer the best way possible – not suffering from
caffeine withdrawal!

We reckon that the idea of a ice cold glass of coffee is tempting enough, but
we wanted to get you off to a good start when it comes to joining the cold
brew crew. So we’ve searched around for a few fantastically refreshing ideas
for how to make the most of it, be it drinking, _drinking_ or… eating!

**Add-ons, swap-ins and tantalising twists**

There’s a whole lot of ways to make this good thing even better. No need to
take this advice with a pinch of salt, but that’s exactly what we’re going to
suggest. Once you’ve diluted your cold brew in a glass, sprinkle a smidgen in
( _not_ [salt bae](https://giphy.com/gifs/meme-steak-
seasoning-l4Jz3a8jO92crUlWM) levels) and you should find that it really opens
up the flavour. Honest! Fancy a fresher start to the day? Why not try adding a
few sprigs of mint to the filter?

If you’re worried about being too chilled out, we’ve seen a
[recipe](https://www.perfectdailygrind.com/2016/09/creative-spice-cold-brew-
coffee/) using cinnamon and cayenne pepper that’ll be sure to get you all
fired up. We know that our coffees already pack a powerful punch when it comes
to flavour, but there’s nothing wrong with experimenting – right?

**Day-drinking – all day, every day**

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/1024x649xEspresso-
Martini-e1450867802708-1024x649.jpg.pagespeed.ic.NVslFjV5KZ.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/12/Espresso-Martini-e1450867802708.jpg)

That’s all well and good, you say, but why shouldn’t I just reach out for a
cold can of summery cider instead? Hot weather means you’ll be spending every
spare moment sunbathing in the park. But while parklife demands something
chilled and boozy, it’s clear to us that coffee can easily go hand-in-hand
with the stronger stuff. Assemble your cocktail shakers, enlist your
[Keepcup](https://www.pactcoffee.com/shop/pact-keepcup) for a naughtier
purpose and don’t forget the sunnies!

First things first, there’s one clear champion when it comes to bringing
coffee and spirits together – the espresso martini. Four parts cold brew, two
parts vodka and one part coffee liqueur. Add ice, shake it up, serve. We could
stop there, but we also want to shout out about these [cold brew bourbon
cocktail](https://www.gastronomblog.com/2016/05/20/cold-brew-bourbon-
cocktail/) and [coconut Kahlua latte](https://www.homegrounds.co/ultimate-
list-of-cold-brew-coffee-recipes/) recipes we’ve found. Now that’s how you do
it…

**If coffee be the food of love…**

Who said cold brew had to be restricted to liquid form? To ice it up even
more, why not add cream and sugar to your cold brew and freeze it in ice lolly
moulds? Licking a latte lollipop as you laze in a lounger… sounds seriously
summery to us. You could even keep it simple and pop some cold brew in an ice
cube tray, to make sure whatever you drink has an extra hit of caffeine.

Or if you fancy something more indulgent and less likely to be accidentally
snaffled by the kids, go for a cold brew affogato. You won’t get the swirly
mix of melted ice cream and hot espresso that the traditional version offers
(soon to be featured on our
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/pactcoffee/)), but it’s a cooler (and
less time-sensitive!) option. A couple of scoops of vanilla and some delicious
cold brewed Pact coffee – it’s a perfect match.

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/06/1024x683xcoldbrew-1024x683.jpg.pagespeed.ic.Xi77_V2Mci.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/06/coldbrew.jpg)

**Keep cool and carry on**

We don’t know about you, but we’re excited to beat the heat and get our buzz
on at the same time. Like the idea of joining us? You can get your very own
cold brew kit [here](https://www.pactcoffee.com/shop/cold-brew-kit) – let us
know what ice cool coffee experiments you get up to!