---
author: Lydia
categories:
- Tidbits
category: Tidbits
class: blog
date: '2018-08-17T11:45:42+00:00'
date-shown: '2018-08-17'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/java-jargon-buster-our-coffee-chat-explained
tags:
- coffee
- Coffee jargon
- glossay
- jargon busting
title: 'Java Jargon Buster: our coffee chat, explained!'
image_path: ../../assets/img/illustration/01.png
---

**Growing, processing and roasting**

**Agronomy:** The science of crop growing and land management.

**Altitude:** This massively affects the flavour of the coffee, with higher
altitudes generally being best as the cool climate allows the cherry to ripen
more slowly.

**Arabica:** The most widely grown coffee variety in the world – believed to
be the first type of coffee ever cultivated! It makes up around 60% of
commodity coffee and generally all speciality coffee, whereas everything else
tends to be the bitter and more caffeinated Robusta bean.

**Cherry:** This is what grows on coffee trees, a fleshy red cherry that has
two seeds inside – and that’s what becomes the coffee bean!

**Defects:** Issues with a sample of beans that affect their quality. Ranges
from a sample having sticks and stones in it, to the bean itself being mouldy
or black.

**First crack:** The snap, crackle, pop of the coffee roasting world… but
slightly more complex. This is where the cell structure of the beans start to

**Terroir:** From the French for land, this refers to the environmental
elements that make up the growing conditions of a coffee plant – including
everything from soil type to human influence.

**Fermentation:** A delicate balance is required when it comes to coffee.
Fermentation is a metabolic process where sugars convert to acids, gases or
alcohol. It can add to the sweetness and acidity of a coffee, but it can also
ruin a coffee – requires clever processing.

**Green coffee:** This is coffee after processing but before roasting, so
called because of it’s green colouring. Also known just as ‘green’ – so don’t
think we’re talking money!

**Honey process:** Sitting between the natural and washing processing method,
the honey process involves the skin and pulp of the cherry being removed while
the mucilage is left on while drying. This results in a more complex, but less
fruity, flavour.

**Loring Peregrine S70:** Our beautiful beast of a roaster! Ours is special as
it recycles the heat it uses to roast the beans, for totally eco-friendly
coffee!

**Natural process:** Coffee cherries are dried intact, usually on raised beds,
which allows the sugars in the pulp to break down and add to the flavour of
the bean. It requires careful monitoring, however, to make sure the right
level of moisture is consistently achieved.

**Raised beds:** Some processing methods involve leaving coffee cherries to
dry out, until they have a particular moisture level. This can be done on
raised beds, table-like structures that allow air to circulate around all the
coffee for a more consistent result.

**Washed process:** A pulping machine removes the flesh of the cherry, and the
bare beans are then soaked in water for at least one to two days in order to
ferment. This generally produces a high quality coffee.

**Speciality coffee**

**Commodity v. Speciality:** Commodity coffee is traded on the stock-market,
bargain basement beans that farmers sometimes don’t even breakeven on.
Speciality coffee is a different beast – crops are subject to rigorous quality
checks and, as such, they get farmers a much higher price.

**Cup of Excellence:** An annual competition held by the Alliance for Coffee
Excellence, to determine the highest quality coffees that are being produced.
We’ve had a few [winners](https://www.pactcoffee.com/coffees/la-bendicion-
national-award-winner-honduras-cup-of-excellence-2015) and
[contenders](https://www.pactcoffee.com/coffees/integral-cipres) on our books
over the years!

**Direct Trade:** The usual coffee supply chain has masses of steps, with
coffee changing hands between mill owners, exporters, importers, packagers,
suppliers just to name a few. We cut out a lot of steps with Direct Trade –
going direct to the farmer and buying from them. That why, they get a fairer
price for their beans as less people are getting a cut.

**FNC:** Or the _Federación Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia,_ in full. A
non-profit organisation in Colombia, that protects the interests of local
farmers and promotes coffee from Colombia. They’re someone we work with a lot!

**Single Origin:** Coffee that comes from one specific location. Sometimes
it’s a country or region but, often in our case, from just one specific farm.
The more specific an origin the coffee is sourced from, the more uniform and
distinct the flavour should be.

**Tasting**  

**Acidity:** Something that really affects the flavour – too little acidity,
and a coffee is dull and lifeless. Too much and it’s harsh and astringent.
It’s thought that the higher the altitude coffee is grown at, the more
complicated the acidity… in a good way, that is!

**Clean:** If there are any issues during the growing of coffee, this will
show up in the taste. Defects will ‘dirty’ the taste, so coffee that _has_
been grown well is referred to as tasting ‘clean’!

**Cupping:** Slurp central. Or, how coffee is graded and assessed for taste
and quality. Loudly sucking up coffee from a soup spoon, so the whole mouth is
coated, tasters can really get a sense of whether a batch of beans is good or
not. This is how Will determines the flavour notes! ****

**Flavour notes:** What the coffee tastes of – from pineapple to Mars bars!

**Mouthfeel:** As the word suggests, the feel of the coffee in your mouth. It
could be anything from silky to juicy, or heavy to thin.

**Brewing**

**Aeropress:** From the inventor of the Aerobie frisbee, a one-cup coffee
press – [handy](https://www.pactcoffee.com/brew-guides/aeropress) for
travelling!

**Bloom:** The release of CO2 when hot water comes into contact with coffee
grounds. As coffee beans are always leaking this gas, a bigger ‘bloom’
indicates freshness!

**Cold brew:** Coffee doesn’t always have to be hot! You can get a quality
chilled cup everytime, using the cold brew we [
stock](https://www.pactcoffee.com/brew-guides/coldBrew).

**Crema:** The light-coloured liquid which first comes out of an espresso
machine, sitting on top of the coffee shot – the guinness look! Mostly a
byproduct of the brew method and sometimes, errantly, thought to show quality.

**Extraction:** What the water takes out of the coffee grounds – essentially,
what happens when you brew a cup! Needs to be carefully controlled, or your
coffee could be over-extracted and taste bitter.

**V60:** Our [preferred](https://www.pactcoffee.com/brew-guides/drip) drip
filter equipment. A plastic cone, lined with a wet filter paper and a scoop of
coffee, that you pop on your cup before pouring water through!