---
author: Lydia
categories:
- Coffee
- Pact News
category: Coffee
class: blog
date: '2018-06-22T11:05:35+00:00'
date-shown: '2018-06-22'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/introducing-kenyan-coffee-and-karinga-peaberry
tags:
- coffee
- Coffee Farms
- Direct trade
- Kenya
- Kenyan coffee
title: "Introducing\u2026 Kenyan Coffee and Karinga Peaberry"
image_path: ../../assets/img/illustration/01.png
---

At Pact, we know there’s a whole lot of world out there to see – and that
means there’s just as much amazing coffee to try, too! Not content with
sticking to our tried and tested range of Colombian, Brazilian and Rwandan
coffees (to name a few), Head of Coffee Will’s itchy feet have led us to
Kenya. Exciting, huh!

What’s more, we let you, our well-seasoned caffeine fiends, pick which one of
three carefully curated coffees we would bring back for everyone to try. And
of the three, you chose [Karinga
Peaberry](https://www.pactcoffee.com/shop/karinga-peaberry-pre-order) – the
least typically Kenyan coffee of the lot. For your courage of palate, you were
rewarded with a juicy body tinged with elements of cardamom and ginger,
cutting through an intense edge of orange and with a citrus-like acidity. Nice
work!

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/1024x682xScreen-
Shot-2018-06-20-at-14.50.35-1-1024x682.png.pagespeed.ic.bwtzVVBadz.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/06/Screen-Shot-2018-06-20-at-14.50.35-1.png)

While the Karinga Peaberry speaks for itself, you might be asking – why Kenyan
coffee? Despite being right next door to the home of coffee arabica,
[Ethiopa](https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=fYnWAAAAQBAJ&pg=PA9&dq=isbn:031224665X&source=gbs_toc_r&cad=4#v=onepage&q&f=false),
some sources say that coffee didn’t come to Kenya until around 1900 at which
point it quickly converted a nation of tea-drinkers… a surprising number of
the Pact team can relate to this! Since then things have really taken off,
with Kenya pioneering the washed method of removing the coffee beans from
their cherry and developing a reputation for coffees that typically offer a
clean cup, overtones of blackcurrant and a juicy body.

And why did it take off so quickly? One reason might be that Kenya is just a
genuinely great place to grow arabica: its [fertile volcanic soil and
temperature and rainfall levels](https://softkenya.com/kenya/coffee-in-kenya/)
are ideal for coffee production, coupled with a high altitude which has a
surprisingly positive [effect](https://www.perfectdailygrind.com/2015/06/how-
does-elevation-affect-coffee-and-its-taste-in-the-cup/) on coffee flavour and
quality. But they haven’t just got lucky: soon after coffee was introduced to
Kenya, [formal research
began](https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=GQh1AQAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=Coffee:+A+Comprehensive+Guide+to+the+Bean,+the+Beverage,+and+the+Industry&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjaqf7DgufbAhWJJMAKHVGCAPQQ6AEIJzAA#v=onepage&q=Coffee%3A%20A%20Comprehensive%20Guide%20to%20the%20Bean%2C%20the%20Beverage%2C%20and%20the%20Industry&f=false)
which continues today in the guise of the Coffee Research Foundation. From
quality to yield, this work has ensured that Kenya are really making the most
of their perfect growing conditions. And from all that, we’ve got the truly
special Karinga Peaberry that you can now get your hands on!

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/1024x681xScreen-
Shot-2018-06-20-at-14.42.59-1024x681.png.pagespeed.ic.Ng6O_mF2RG.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/06/Screen-Shot-2018-06-20-at-14.42.59.png)

You might be wondering about the farmers we’re working with in Kenya, and
that’s one of the interesting things about sourcing coffee from this region.
Unlike the wide expanses and rolling coffee farms of Brazil, farms tend to be
comparatively small and made up of only around 25-30 trees. Instead of
sourcing from one particular farm, we’ve partnered up with Karinga Factory – a
washing station affiliated with the Gitwe Farmers Co-operative Society. Around
500-600 farmers sell their cherries to Karinga Factory, who process the beans
and sell them on. The great thing about this is that each farmer gets a bonus
if the beans make a particularly good sale – and with Pact as one of their
buyers, you know that’s the case!

So with a great taste for you, a generous price for the farmers and a ninth
country for us to add to our ‘Pact map’, we think we’re onto a winner with
Karinga Peaberry and Kenyan coffee in general. Why not join us in raising a
cup to that? Get your hands on a bag of your very own
[here](https://www.pactcoffee.com/shop/karinga-peaberry-pre-order)!

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/1024x682xScreen-
Shot-2018-06-20-at-14.49.20-1024x682.png.pagespeed.ic.96u2kzA2x8.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/06/Screen-Shot-2018-06-20-at-14.49.20.png)