---
author: Lydia
categories:
- Behind the scenes
category: Behind the scenes
class: blog
date: '2018-09-06T15:44:29+00:00'
date-shown: '2018-09-06'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/who-is-head-of-coffee-will-and-what-does-he-do
tags:
- head of coffee
- Will
title: "Who is \u201CHead of Coffee, Will\u201D and what does he do?"
image_path: http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Will-Cupping-Kitchen-HQ-6.jpg
image_path: ../../assets/img/illustration/01.png
---

If you’ve ever opened an email from us, you’ve probably seen us mention Will,
our Head of Coffee. Will describes the coffee like _this,_ Will went _here,_
Will did _that_ … et cetera, et cetera. But who is Will? And what does being a
Head of Coffee entail? And how do you become one? Just read on, friends, and
get acquainted with the bean-counting, coffee-slurping arabica expert that is
Will.

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Will-Cupping-
Kitchen-HQ-6.jpg.pagespeed.ce.4YM1CNgkws.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/12/Will-Cupping-Kitchen-HQ-6.jpg)

Like anyone who’s thrown themselves into a BA in English Lit because they
quite liked Harry Potter when they were younger, Will wasn’t the biggest fan
of his university subject. Graduating in 2005 with a degree in Mechanical
Engineering, he knew life as… well, a mechanical engineer wasn’t for him. But
bills gotta get paid! Will took a job delivering packages for the Cardiff
Coffee Company, despite not really being a big fan of the drink itself. But
moving from delivery boy to Head of Sales, he started to learn the ropes of
barista-ing. And that took him to a trade show in London, where he first
tasted speciality beans…

That was it. Lightbulb moment. “Why isn’t everyone drinking this, instead of
rubbish commodity coffee?” he thought. And that was Will all in. Spending the
next few years entering barista championships, he searched for ways to get
speciality out into the public and came up with a solution. Opening a market
stall in Cardiff at the weekends meant he could practice his latte art skills
_and_ spread the speciality word, all in one fell swoop.

After a few years of that, learning more and more about roasters and helping a
friend open Waterloo Tea Rooms (2009’s “best coffee shop in the UK”), Will
took a logistics and buying job at Mercanta – a green coffee supplier. Over
time he started doing their coffee buying in Central America, travelling over
and visiting farms to build up an understanding of best practice for quality
coffee production. Not only did he win the London and South East _and_
Midlands and Northern barista championships during this time, he became a
global espresso specialist. This meant he helped roasters learn to blend
espressos well… and then, because he fancied it, he went into roasting
himself.

His strange, mixed bag of experiences gave him an end-to-end specialist
knowledge of the whole coffee supply chain – from picking cherries, to
processing them, to roasting green, to brewing perfectly. And that unique set
of skills was spotted by Stephen Rapoport, founder of Pact Coffee.

Will started off by recommending coffees to Stephen, advising on how to roast
them and what the best grinding practices were – the menu only had four
coffees at that time, so it wasn’t as much work as it is now! But after
helping out on an unofficial basis for nine months, he realised there was a
big opportunity there. That’s when Stephen made Will Pact’s Head of Coffee.

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/Will-and-the-
woman-3.jpg.pagespeed.ce.21xfUwE5AT.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/Will-and-the-woman-3.jpg)

**What does a Head of Coffee** ** _do_** **?**

So that’s who he is. Coffee-hating mechanical engineering student turned
barista champion and espresso expert. But what does being a Head of Coffee
actually involve?

The first six months were spent building Pact Coffee a roastery – recruiting a
band of roasters and a coffee team, getting operations in order and building
our first relationships with coffee farmers. And since then, a lot of what
Will does has involved travelling all around the world – Brazil, Colombia,
Guatemala, Ethiopia, Honduras, Kenya and Rwanda – to find and buy from
talented farmers. He goes back each year to buy from the same farmers, and as
such provides a sustainable income for them and their families. Phew.

When he’s _not_ in far-flung coffee fields, he’s either in the roastery or the
office. Doing daily cupping, roast supervision and helping out with quality
control when he’s in Haslemere. Relaying his tales, liaising with his overseas
contacts and organising the madness that is international shipping when he’s
in the office. It’s a strange and challenging job – but someone’s got to do
it!