---
author: Lydia
categories:
- Pact News
category: Pact News
class: blog
date: '2018-07-18T15:37:46+00:00'
date-shown: '2018-07-18'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/growing-awareness-pact-in-the-press
tags:
- pact at work
- Pact Coffee
- press
title: 'Growing awareness: Pact in the Press'
image_path: ../../assets/img/illustration/01.png
---

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/1024x683xRipe-
Cherries-1024x683.jpg.pagespeed.ic.WZBhx9JGsP.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/07/Ripe-Cherries.jpg)

We like a compliment as much as the next person (or company). In just the last
five or so months, it’s fair to say we’ve been getting about online – from
little ‘big-ups’ in a variety of listicles, to our expert staff offering
soundbites on their coffee knowledge. We’ve even had full-blown articles
written about who Pact is and what we’re doing! We could tell you all that
ourselves, sure, but why not see what other people are saying?

**The people of Pact**

[Business Insider](http://uk.businessinsider.com/coffee-mistakes-people-make-
and-how-to-fix-them-2018-3?r=US&IR=T) sat down with Will, our resident expert
and Head of Coffee, to chat about the mistakes people make with coffee:

> Corby has been working in the coffee industry for 12 years, has won and
judged global barista awards, ran his own coffee shops, and also has
experience roasting.

>

> “For the past 12 years, I’ve specialised in the absolute pinnacle of coffee
quality  
>  and optimising the process of growing it, shipping it, importing it,
brewing it,” he  
>  said.

>

> He’s also been a head judge — appointed by the Colombian government — for
the  
>  Colombian National Quality Competition for the past two years. Now at Pact
Coffee, he  
>  works on relationships with coffee founders to “develop practices, and
increase quality  
>  and production in a sustainable manner,” he said.

>

> “We want to show the coffee in the best light we can, brew the coffee in the
best  
>  possible way, [and] provide it to [people] in a way that makes it easy.”

It’s not just Will’s talents that have been showcased, however – we’ve got
plenty of coffee aficionados in Pact HQ, including Senior Customer Champion
Melissa. In an article from [The
Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/flat-white-coffee-
culture-antipodean-mcdonalds-advert-starbucks-latte-a8246111.html) regarding
the meteoric rise of the flat white, Mel featured as a (non-talking) talking
head:

> And, as Pact Coffee expert Melissa Dabbs says, “It’s also become the go-to
drink for  
>  coffee connoisseurs.”

**Pact Coffee: a success story**

We’re pretty pleased to be recognised as the all-cupping and all-tasting
coffee experts we are, but it’s also been great to see some flattering
features on Pact’s wares. In June of this year, Pact made
[Esquire](https://www.esquire.com/uk/life/g20872429/subscription-boxes-for-
men/)’s ‘Best Subscription Boxes for Men’ list (though great coffee is for
everyone as far as we’re concerned!):

> Coffee subscriptions are the backbone of the subscription box industry, and
Pact’s are a  
>  top example. Pick how highly localised you want your coffee – you can get a
cheaper  
>  blend or a more exclusive single estate brew – before choosing how you like
to drink it  
>  and how often you need topping up, then wait for your coffee safe in the
knowledge that  
>  Pact pay producers more for their beans than Fairtrade on average.

Thanks, Esquire – high praise indeed! We also got props (again!) from [The
Independent](https://www.esquire.com/uk/life/g20872429/subscription-boxes-for-
men/), for our coffee capsules:

> Pact is on a mission to cut out the middle man and pay more directly to the
independent  
>  coffee farmers. This results in you getting more delicious coffee for your
buck (and  
>  spending less on the supply chain).

>

> Both of its pod blends come from Brazil, and we found this medium roast to
be a real  
>  crowd-pleaser. Expect a punch of dark chocolate, a slightly tart note of
cherries and  
>  creamy almond to round things off. They work best as a shorter serve – go
for the dark  
>  roast if you prefer to add milk.

**Pact progressing**

There’s well and truly been a (coffee) buzz about Pact’s people and
performance, but what about our progress? We’ve seen some big changes in the
past year, including a new Managing Director joining and the start of Pact
Coffee for Business. Here’s [Business
Quarter](http://www.bqlive.co.uk/national/2018/06/18/news/how-do-i-take-my-
start-up-down-a-new-path-32742/), talking to MD Paul Turton about what to do
when start-ups grow up:

> There are many different strategies available to a start-up to change path,
including  
>  making a bold step to pivot and changing market direction. Very often, to
execute this, a  
>  change of leadership and transformation of focus is the most appropriate
and effective  
>  course of action.

>

> (…)

>

> Starting a company is an incredibly exciting time, filled with passion,
innovation and  
>  changes at every turn; one thing that is for sure is that you can never
predict what is  
>  around the corner. Be open to changes that may transform your business for
the better  
>  and open your eyes to new opportunities. If you communicate, stick to your
values and  
>  build in controls below the surface, your company will get back on the
right path and  
>  remain as strong as ever.

Great advice, Paul! And speaking of new directions,
[Compelo](https://www.compelo.com/pact-at-work-office-coffee-service/)
featured Pact Coffee’s move into B2B with Pact Coffee for Business (formerly
Pact at Work):

> Pact Coffee is a London-based start-up that has racked up 40,000 regular
subscribers  
>  while focusing on the consumer market over the past six years, but has been
developing  
>  a B2B proposition since November last year. Already, major companies packed
with  
>  young employees like JustEat, TransferWise, Trustpilot, Trainline and Vice
Media have  
>  signed up to receive freshly-roasted “specialty coffee” via the new Pact at
Work scheme.

>

> (…)

>

> The latest growth spurt is down to the promising beginning experienced by
Pact at Work,  
>  which started at the same time Paul joined the company – a move that
coincided with  
>  Stephen stepping down as CEO and moving into a chairman role. Paul, who has
a  
>  background in B2B retail sales and management, saw the opportunity for a
corporate  
>  offer. In return for a monthly fee calculated per employee, corporate
customers have  
>  specialty coffee delivered to their office door, along with free
installation of a machine for  
>  distributing the hot drinks.

We’re really excited about how we’re growing – it’s even meant we’ve had to
supersize our roastery to keep up with demand, as [Insider
Media](https://www.insidermedia.com/insider/southeast/new-surrey-roaster-for-
coffee-subscription-service) has featured for us:

> A coffee subscription service has revealed plans for the creation of a new
roaster in  
>  Surrey. Pact Coffee, which is headquartered in Bermondsey and serves more
than  
>  40,000 subscribers, will develop the facility in Haslemere.

>

> As part of the expansion, the company has recently launched a business-to-
business  
>  service, ‘Pact Coffee for Business’, to provide premium coffee to offices
and workspaces  
>  across the UK.

**Be part of Pact**

From expert opinions and quality coffee, to business growth and roastery
relocation, we’ve enjoyed reading about everything that’s been going on in the
last year. In fact, we’re a bashful lot, so we’re not going to say anything
else. Ok, fine. Just one more thing – if you liked what you read, you or your
office can get involved in our story too!