---
author: Lydia
categories:
- Origin stories
- Pact News
category: Origin stories
class: blog
date: '2018-09-10T14:04:10+00:00'
date-shown: 'september 10, 2018'
layout: post
permalink: /spilling_beans/celebrating-women-in-coffee-international-coffee-days-2018-focus
tags:
- coffee
- international coffee day
- women
title: "Celebrating Women in Coffee: International Coffee Day\u2019s 2018 Focus"
image_path: http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/maria.jpg
---

Like Christmas, it comes just once a year. But, unlike Christmas – it’s not
all fun and games (and overeating and over-drinking…). International Coffee
Day is a day to celebrate coffee, and also to reflect on issues in the
industry itself. This year, the International Coffee Organisation has chosen
its focus to be the role of women in the coffee chain – applauding their hard
work, and acknowledging the gender inequity inherent in both coffee farming
and agriculture as a whole.

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/683x1024xAissa-
Roasting-Beans-
Cooler-1-2-683x1024.jpg.pagespeed.ic.2q2Mr6g8I_.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/Aissa-Roasting-Beans-Cooler-1-2.jpg)Aissa, our former
coffee roaster

Why? Well, farming actually _isn’t_ a man’s world. Not in any literal sense,
anyway… here’s a few facts that might realign your thinking on what the
‘typical coffee farmer’ might look like:

  * **Women take on 70% of all coffee fieldwork…** _but own just 15% of farmland, processing facilities and traded product

_

  * **Women make up 43% of the labour force in agriculture…** _but receive just 5% of the relevant training

_

  * **Women run 25-35% of coffee farms…** _and studies suggest giving women more opportunities would raise production on these farms by 20-30%

_

  * **Women in coffee farming work a 15-hour day due to their work and home responsibilities…** _while men work just eight hours_

So there’s _a lot_ of women in farming… but nowhere near as many
opportunities. And that’s why we think it’s great that International Coffee
Day this year is specifically all about women, their contributions and the
injustices they face in the coffee world.

**Shout out to Victoria Concepcion Aguirra!**

[![Head of Coffee, Will Corby, with Victoria Concepcion
Aguirra](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/06/1024x699xIMG_6605-1024x699.jpg.pagespeed.ic.b5yjkPpEyJ.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2017/06/IMG_6605.jpg) Will and Victoria

We heard about what the ICO were focusing on this year and thought – we want
to get behind that! So what better time to bring back one particular coffee to
our menu: the El Campanario. With its rich cocoa and raisin flavours, round
body and grape-like acidity, this is a seriously special coffee. And, more
importantly, it’s produced by an incredible farmer who is changing the coffee
industry for better.

Victoria, a farmer in Honduras, started out with just 70 square metres of
farmland to her name. She grew and sold commodity coffee at low prices,
struggling to support her seven children, before deciding things had to
change. And (luckily for us!) that’s when Will stepped in. Knowing he was
heading over to Honduras to scope out speciality crops, Victoria worked hard
to product a single batch for him to sample. And that showed Will that she had
what it takes…

By providing some training and advice, on when to pick her cherries and how to
refine her processing methods, Victoria was able to scale up – getting paid
twice as much for her coffee and expanding the farm to three times its
original size. Today, she’s a leading voice on coffee in her area – heading up
a community group and inspiring new generations of women in coffee. And all it
took was being given the opportunity, training and space to succeed. You can
show your support _and_ get your own bag [
here](https://www.pactcoffee.com/coffees/el-campanario).

**Changing attitudes in coffee**

[![](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/09/1024x768xmaria-1024x768.jpg.pagespeed.ic.GfupQ4IQI_.jpg)](http://blog.pactcoffee.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/09/maria.jpg) Maria and Will

For things to really change, we need to look at every level of the coffee
supply chain. One action we’ve taken is choosing to keep working with Maria
Olano, a logistics expert at the Federación Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia
(FNC), despite insistence that Will liaise with a male employee instead.
Another is specifically hiring a woman, Aissa, to work in our roastery,
recognising raw talent and using it as an opportunity to redress the gender
imbalance in this industry (read more on our Pact Coffee for Business
[blog](https://blog.pactatwork.pactcoffee.com/pacts-impact-women-in-the-
supply-chain)).

These are small things. But lots of small things lead to big things, so why
not join us in celebrating women this International Coffee Day by brewing a
batch of Victoria’s [El Campanario](https://www.pactcoffee.com/coffees/el-
campanario)?